Social Media/Daily posts.md, before:

# My daily posts

- Things to share
	- Share resources
	- Motivation
	- projects
	- Technologies
	- Write up

Write about teach

There is a psychology behind writing things down, unconsciously you find yourself doing what you wrote down. Never underestimate the power of setting a goal and having a to-dos.

Writing things down helps us to remember once we've written it down simply because we are force to repeat what we have read or hear when trying to write it down. A form of repetition of learning and can also serves as a first point of reference.


Another good way to improve learning is putting new knowledge & skills into practice. Learning to code is hard but with consistent practice your learning will improve and concepts will stick quickly.

Teach everything you know.

Job Search on it's own is a full time job and requires a lot deliberate actions.

Understanding the market demands in one's location is crucial in preparing & positioning 

If you're currently on the job hunt, you can use this website called [wozber](https://www.wozber.com/en-us)to scan your resume & cover letter for ATS Optimization.

Commit message:

Update daily activities & other things

Social Media/Daily posts.md, after:

# My daily posts

- Things to share
	- Share resources
	- Motivation
	- projects
	- Technologies
	- Write up

Write about teach

There is a psychology behind writing things down, unconsciously you find yourself doing what you wrote down. Never underestimate the power of setting a goal and having a to-dos.

Writing things down helps us to remember once we've written it down simply because we are force to repeat what we have read or hear when trying to write it down. A form of repetition of learning and can also serves as a first point of reference.


Another good way to improve learning is putting new knowledge & skills into practice. Learning to code is hard but with consistent practice your learning will improve and concepts will stick quickly.

Teach everything you know.

Job Search on it's own is a full time job and requires a lot deliberate actions.

Understanding the market demands in one's location is crucial in preparing & positioning 

If you're currently on the job hunt, you can use this website called [wozber](https://www.wozber.com/en-us)to create a tailored resume, scan your resume & cover letter for ATS Optimization.

They say practice makes perfect, by making a little daily efforts

Rejections can be so demoralizing but seeing it in a positive way is a big plus, currently on the job search, I remember the first two days after so many rejections i was down & depressed but after so many days I realized it is part of the process

There's is blessing in receiving a no as much as it hurts, sometimes it can mean not now, or an opportunity to check the process and see what is not working or what you are doing wrong. For example I noticed from Google Analytics that most visits to my portfolio comes from a mobile and this allows me to work on the mobile responsiveness of the portfolio because the mobile view wasn't that responsive enough. Had it mean I don't receive the nos I won't get to know the mobile responsiveness is a mess. 

I also noticed I'm not putting out qualities applications, I was just focus on applying for as much job as I can and not putting too much thought about the materials e.g like tailoring the resume to suit the job role, writing a bespoke cover letters that makes me stand out.

A colleague said, receiving NOs is part of the process and set him up for a better future opportunities.

Seeing rejections as a way to make a critical analysis of the process will help all through the job search period and will help you to be some resilient. As software development is done in iteration so is job searching, you have to continue to deduce what works and what does not until you receive that one YES.

Still on the job search, but trying to share my story for anyone trying to give up after so many rejections, to see receiving NO as part of the process and a way to fine tuned application materials

We'all going to bag that Offer soon.

Rooting for y'all.
